How to Make Croissants-
Step 1: Bloom the yeast: In the bowl of your mixer, add the warm milk, brown sugar, and yeast. Give it a quick stir with a fork or small whisk and let it sit for 5-10 minutes, until the yeast foams up well.
Step 2: Make the dough: To your bloomed yeast, add the flour and salt. Use the dough hook on your mixer and let the dough knead for about 5 minutes on low speed. The dough should turn out nice, soft, elastic, and slightly sticky. Because of varying environment conditions, you may need more flour than I used. Add 1 tbsp at a time until your dough feels perfect. Knead the dough by hand for a few minutes, then add it back to the bowl. Wrap the bowl well with plastic and let the dough sit in the fridge for 1 hour.
Step 3: Prepare the butter: Arrange the sticks of butter on a sheet of plastic wrap horizontally. Lay another piece of plastic over the sticks, and use a rolling pin to flatten the sticks until you have approximately an 8×5 inch rectangle. Put the butter, still wrapped in plastic, in the fridge until the dough is ready.
Step 4: Laminate the dough: Laminating dough is the process of folding butter into the dough many times, which is what creates all those layers. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and roll it to a 16×10 inch rectangle. Place your butter in the center, and fold the edges of the dough rectangle over to cover the butter completely. Roll the dough out so it’s back to 16×10 inches, then fold it letter-style into thirds. Wrap the dough with plastic and place it in the fridge for an hour. I like to repeat this process a total of 5 times giving us a total of 729 layers. Yes, that’s right! 729 layers!
Step 5: Bake the croissants: Roll the dough out, one last time, until you have a long rectangle about 1/4″ thick. I like to cut the dough into thirds to make this part easier. Slice the dough into long triangles, and roll each one starting at the wide end until you have a crescent shape. Brush with a lightly beaten egg, and bake on a parchment paper lined sheet for 8-12 minutes at 400F, then turn the oven down to 375 and bake for another 8-12 minutes.
